>> Mike North: Next we're
gonna zoom way back up.
So we've learned a lot about SASS so
far, and
now comes the section we're
all looking forward to.
[LAUGH] We're going to talk
a little bit about BEM.
So here at a high level
is what BEM is all about.
It involves defining three
types of CSS classes.
The first is a block.
And how you know something is
a block is that it is a standalone
entity in and of itself.
In frontend development,
this would probably be a component, right?
This would be a component.
Here are examples like a header, the
container that we've been dealing with,
wherewe have sort of layout
expressed within that container.
A menu which would have menu items within
it, a checkbox, input, button and so on.
So elements are things that exist within
the block that don't really
have much meaning on their own.
So if we have a right-click menu, one of
those menu items that doesn't really make
sense to use like in
the context of other things.
You wouldn't wanna use that
with a button or to put it,
you might have something that looks
similar and like a drop-down,
but that is sort of an internal
concept of the right-click menu.
So here we've got a menu-item,
a list-item,
a caption underneath a checkbox,
the title piece of the header component.
These are sort of component internals.
Those are what elements end up being.
And then finally we've got modifiers.
We've been using these today.
Any of those little classes that you
add to buttons to change their colors,
those are great examples of a modifier.
And that right-nav class that
we added to the container,
that's another great
example of a modifier.
Where you kind of decorate
a component with this thing, and
it's almost a flag that alters the
behavior or the look and feel in some way.
And so here, examples are whether
something's highlighted or
checked, sizes and colors.
These are all fair game.
Oftentimes, when we're dealing
with pseudo selectors,
like colon disabled or
colon hover or colon visited for
links, they fit into
the category of modifiers.
And that's why they're broken out as
sort of a separate thing from a link
or a button.
So this is sort of building on that
same precedent that has been set
in buttons and links.
So here's an example of how we can
look at different UI elements and
identify whether things are blocks or
elements or modifiers.
So you see here we've got a menu,
with menu elements in it.
The menu would be the whole
collection of four things.
And those menu elements don't really
have much meaning outside the context of
the containing menu.
Likewise, we've got a button
down here with a theme of green.
That should make total sense to you.
We've been coloring buttons all day.
We've got a big imput that is just
a decorated version of the same component
that is shown right underneath the tab
of the browser there in the nav bar.
So like deciding when something
should be internals of a component or
broken out into its own freestanding
component, some experience and
judgment and foresight as to what future
use cases might involve is required.
So to some degree there's
judgment as to whether
like its composability would be something
you really need within the component or
whether it should be just sort of
a something you drop in place and
it is opaque from the outside world.
And you just have nothing, no control
over exactly what goes on in the inside.
So here's an example of how
we might take something and
make it into a how we might decide
how to start style this using BEM.
So we've got what I am
calling a text field.
And you'll notice that we've got a label
thing to the left with his first name.
We've got some error text underneath
the input, and then of course,
there's the input itself.
So here is how we might end
up defining this thing.
You'll notice that when we define
elements inside the block, so
the block just has
a traditional CSS class.
You could have a dash
in there if you wanted.
That would be the convention.
When you have double underscores,
that indicates that you're defining
an element inside a block.
And double dashes will typically indicate
that you're defining a modifier.
And you'll notice that we're reusing
this text field name over and over.
And this is to ensure that the elements
inside this block do not collide with
elements inside other blocks.
If I had other labels for other things,
this is gonna have a totally different
class name than those other things
because this is for the text field.
So SASS and the parent selector
make this really easy because
we can just use the parent selector for
this.
Followed by __ and then the name
of the element inside the block.
We can just nest it like you see
down here, which is really nice.
For modifiers, so we can do something
similar, there's a little caveat here,
in that as we saw before,
these classes will end up being broken
out of the context of, actually,
this is not correct, sorry.
I'm gonna have to alter this real quickly.
All right, here we go.
This is correct.
The Keynote's doing me all
kinds of favors here by turning
my double dashes between text field and
state into a single long dash, but
this is the way you should structure this.
Here's what was wrong
with what I had before.
First off,
it would have been regarded as a class
that exists inside the textfield, right?
And you might think, well,
wouldn't it be nice if we could just put
an ampersand in place
of that word textfield.
You cannot use the parent selector
more than once to define the selector,
right, so
we could not do end.end-- state-error.
If you are okay with these being
kind of classes that break
out of the context of textfield,
there are other ways of doing this.
This is how I've seen it before and
this is how I advise doing it.